	The next few decades will see great changes in the way energy is supplied 
and used. In some major oil producing nations, 'peak oil' has already been 
reached, and there are increasing fears of global warming. Consequently, 
many countries are focusing on the switch to a low carbon economy. This 
transition will lead to major changes in the supply and use of electricity. 
Firstly, there will be an increase in overall demand, as consumers switch 
from oil and gas to electricity to power their homes and vehicles. 
Secondly, there will be an increase in power generation, not only in terms 
of how much is generated, but also how it is generated, as there is growing 
electricity generation from renewable sources. To meet these challenges, 
countries are investing in Smart Grid technology. This system aims to 
provide the electricity industry with a better understanding of power 
generation and demand, and to use this information to create a more 
efficient power network.
	Smart Grid technology basically involves the application of a computer 
system to the electricity network. The computer system can be used to 
collect information about supply and demand and improve engineer's ability 
to manage the system. With better information about electricity demand, the 
network will be able to increase the amount of electricity delivered per 
unit generated, leading to potential reductions in fuel needs and carbon 
emissions. Moreover, the computer system will assist in reducing 
operational and maintenance costs.
	Smart Grid technology offers benefits to the consumer too. They will be 
able to collect real-time information on their energy use for each 
appliance. Varying tariffs throughout the day will give customers the 
incentive to use appliances at times when supply greatly exceeds demand, 
leading to great reductions in bills. For example, they may use their 
washing machines at night. Smart meters can also be connected to the 
internet or telephone system, allowing customers to switch appliances on or 
off remotely. Furthermore, if houses are fitted with the apparatus to 
generate their own power, appliances can be set to run directly from the 
on-site power source, and any excess can be sold to the grid.
	With these changes comes a range of challenges. The first involves managing 
the supply and demand. Sources of renewable energy, such as wind, wave and 
solar, are notoriously unpredictable, and nuclear power, which is also set 
to increase as nations switch to alternative energy sources, is inflexible. 
With oil and gas, it is relatively simple to increase the supply of energy 
to match the increasing demand during peak times of the day or year. With 
alternative sources, this is far more difficult, and may lead to blackouts 
or system collapse. Potential solutions include investigating new and 
efficient ways to store energy and encouraging consumers to use electricity 
at off-peak times.
	A second problem is the fact that many renewable power generation sources 
are located in remote areas, such as windy uplands and coastal regions, 
where there is currently a lack of electrical infrastructure. New 
infrastructures therefore must be built. Thankfully, with improved smart 
technology, this can be done more efficiently by reducing the reinforcement 
or construction costs.
	Although Smart Technology is still in its infancy, pilot schemes to promote 
and test it are already underway. Consumers are currently testing the new 
smart meters which can be used in their homes to manage electricity use. 
There are also a number of demonstrations being planned to show how the 
smart technology could practically work, and trials are in place to test 
the new electrical infrastructure. It is likely that technology will be 
added in 'layers', starting with 'quick win' methods which will provide 
initial carbon savings, to be followed by more advanced systems at a later 
date. Cities are prime candidates for investment into smart energy, due to 
the high population density and high energy use. It is here where Smart 
Technology is likely to be promoted first, utilising a range of sustainable 
power sources, transport solutions and an infrastructure for charging 
electrically powered vehicles. The infrastructure is already changing fast. 
By the year 2050, changes in the energy supply will have transformed our 
homes, our roads and our behavior.